# Case Studies

## Corpus Creation

We did not divide the cases in the corpus into train, development and test set based on any temporal consideration or stratification, because the objective of the system that may eventually emerge from the project is not meant to be limited to any particular law or laws, nor focused on any particular period of time. On the contrary, the aim is to identify common features of judgments pronounced in relation to various legislation, by different judges, and across different temporal phases, so as to be able to use the said features to decipher the judicial decision-making process and successfully predict the nature of the order finally pronounced by the court given a set of facts and legal arguments. While there would be a degree of subjectivity involved given the difference in the thoughts and interpretations adopted by different judges, such differences are to be also found between two judges who are contemporaries of each other, as much as between two judges who have pronounced judgments on similar matters across a gap of decades. The focus is therefore to develop a system that would be equally successful in predicting the outcome of a judgment given the law that had been in vogue twenty years back, as it would in relation to law that is currently in practice. The validity and efficacy of the system can therefore be equally tested by applying it to cases from years back, as to cases from more recent period. In fact, if the system cannot be temporally independent, and remains limited to only successful prediction of contemporary judgments, then it is likely to fail any test of application, because by the time the final version of the system can be ready for practical application on a large scale, the laws might get amended or replaced, and therefore, the judgments that would subsequently be rendered by the court might be as different from one pronounced today, as the latter might differ from one pronounced in the twentieth century. Not acknowledging time as a factor during data sample choice, therefore, appears to be the prudent step in this case, especially given the exponential rate at which legislation is getting amended today, as well as the fast-paced growth of technological development.

## Explainability Annotations

Each document was annotated by 5 experts (in isolation) using the WebAnno framework. The annotators could assign ranks to the sentences selected as explanations; a higher rank indicates more importance than the final judgment. The rationale for rank assignment to the sentences is as follows. Rank 1 was given to sentences immediately leading to the decision. Rank 2 was assigned to sentences that contributed to the decision. Rank 3 was given to sentences indicative of the disagreement of the current court with a lower court/tribunal decision. Sentences containing the facts of the case, not immediately, leading to decision making, but are essential for the case were assigned Rank 4 (or lower). Note in practice, only a small set of sentences of a document were assigned a rank.

## An example case description

Das Gupta, J. This appeal by special leave is against the order of the High Court at Allahabad under s. 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The three appellants carry on the trade of auctioning vegetables. These vegetables, it appears, are brought in carts which are parked on the public road outside the building where the auctioning takes place. There was some dispute between these appellants and the Municipal Board which it is suggested by the appellants was really behind the move to get this order under s. 133 passed against them. It is unnecessary, however, for us to consider that matter. What appears to be clear is that the trade is carried on in a private house in the subzimandi quarter and it does happen that some amount of inconvenience is caused to people who pass by the public road because of the carts which necessarily come near this house. The real question is, whether because this trade of auctioning vegetables which the appellants carry on in their private house produce the consequence that people passing by the road are put to inconvenience, action can be taken under s. 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 

   The High Court seems to be of the opinion - when it is clear that the business of auctioning vegetables cannot be carried on without causing obstruction to the passers by, the conduct of the business can be prohibited, even though it is carried on in a private place. It seems to us that this proposition has been put too widely. Section 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure empowers action by the District Magistrate, Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Magistrate 1st class to remove public nuisances in certain circumstances. Two out of the several cls. of s. 133(1) in which these circumstances are set out, with which we are concerned, are the first and second clauses. The first clause provides for action by Magistrate where he considers, on receiving a police-report or other information and on taking such evidence as he thinks fit, that any unlawful obstruction or nuisance should be removed from any way, river or channel which is or may be lawfully used by the public or from any public place. The second clause deals with the position where the conduct of any trade or occupation or the keeping of any goods or merchandise, is injurious to the health or physical comfort of the community and that in consequence such trade or occupation should be prohibited or regulated or such goods or merchandise should be removed or the keeping thereof regulated. It is difficult to see how the first clause can have any application.
    
   Unlawful obstruction, if any, is certainly not caused by the people who carry on the trade of auctioning. If the obstruction caused by keeping the carts on the road can be considered to be unlawful obstruction within the meaning of this clause - about which we express no opinion action can be taken against the persons causing such obstruction. The obvious difficulty in the way of that might be that the persons who bring the carts are not the same from day do day. But whether or not any action is possible under s. 133 against the persons bringing the carts, we are unable to agree that merely because the appellants carry on auctioning in connection with which the carts are brought, they can be considered to have caused the obstruction. In our opinion, the appellants cannot be considered to be the persons causing obstruction. Turning now to the next clause, the question arises how the conduct of this auctioning trade is injurious to the health or physical comfort of the community. Undoubtedly, some amount of noise the auction is going on. That however is a necessary concomitant of buying and selling large quantities and it will be unreasonable to think that merely because some amount of noise is caused which people preferring perfect peace may not like, this is injurious to the physical comfort, or health of the community. It appears to us that the conduct of trades of this nature and indeed of other trades in localities of a city where such trades are usually carried on, is bound to produce some discomfort, though at the same time resulting perhaps in the good of the community in other respects. If a trade like auctioning which has to be carried on as necessary for the well being of the community, some amount of noise has to be borne in at least that part of the town where such trade is ordinarily carried on. 
   
   In making the provisions of s. 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the legislature cannot have intended the stoppage of such trades in such part of the town, merely because of the discomfort caused by the noise in carrying on the trade. In our opinion therefore, the slight discomfort that may be caused to some people passing by the road or living in the neighbourhood cannot ordinarily be considered to be such as to justify action under s. 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We do not think that the orders are justified under s. 133.
   
   DECISION ??

## Agreement in judgment prediction for annotators

* __*Annotation Assignment 1954_13:*__ In this case, although the original decision is that the appeal has been rejected, Users 1-4 have reached the decision that it has been accepted, while User 5 has decided that it has been rejected. This discrepancy appears to owe it origin to the very nature of the case and the issues considered by the court. There had been more than one such issue and separate arguments had been made by appellant in favour of each of such issue and associated prayer. The court appears to have agreed to some of the arguments and disagreed with the rest. Given the binary nature of the choice available to the Users, they could therefore decided the matter either way, as seems to have been done. The exact decision might therefore have been better described as partially accepted/partially rejected –however, this alternative option had not been made available. This indicates that for cases involving multiple issues, providing such a third option might yield more accurate results and uniformity of user-decision.

* __*Annotation Assignment 1961\_417:*__ In this case, although the original decision is that the appeal has been rejected, Users 2 and 4 have decided that it has been accepted. User 2 appears to have misconstrued certain positions of law and relied unduly upon one of the other cases being cited as precedent (but not considered relevant by the Supreme Court), which might account for the divergence. In case of User 4, however, the issue appears to be more of a linguistic matter. User 4 has referred to a particular statement made by the court, “The main question that arises in this appeal is whether an illegitimate son of a sudra vis-a-vis his self acquired property, after having succeeded to a half share of his putative fathers estate, will be entitled to succeed to the other half share got by the widow, after the succession opened out to his putative father on the death of the said widow.” From this sentence, User 4 has drawn the inference that the appellant was the one asking to establish such entitlement. Since the court in subsequent comments agreed that such entitlement does exist, User 4 inferred that the appeal had been accepted. However, in reality, the appellant had been contesting such entitlement. The court’s singular way of drafting the issue under contention, together with User 4 not having studied more thoroughly the facts leading to the case in the first place (which might have helped the user to reach a conclusion about the appellant’s prayers more accurately) appear to have contributed to this discrepancy.
   
* __*Annotation Assignment 1962\_47:*__ In this case, although the original decision is that the appeal has been rejected, Users 2 and 5 have decided that it has been accepted. This discrepancy appears to owe its origin to both of them having been misled by Sentence 17 of the case, which appears to refer to the Supreme Court having accepted an appeal and merely giving reasons for such order in the present case. However, the case in point was actually arising from an application for review of the court’s earlier judgment (acceptance of the appeal), and therefore, when the court was affirming its earlier judgment and giving reasons behind it, it was in reality rejecting this present application for review, that had been made by the party (respondent in the original appeal) aggrieved by the acceptance of such appeal by the court earlier. Users 2 and 5 could not apparently distinguish the appeal from the review petition and that appears to have led to such discrepancy.



## Example explanation annotation

The justification for each annotator (users) for the assignment of the choice of explanation sentences (with the associated ranks) are given below.

_**User 1**_: The case is by way of an appeal from an order of the High Court u/s 133 CrPC. Based on sentences 20 (“In our opinion, the appellants cannot be considered to be the persons causing obstruction”) and 24-28 (especially 27 and 28: In our opinion therefore, the slight discomfort that may be caused to some people passing by the road and living in the neighbourhood cannot ordinarily be considered to be such as to justify action under S. 133 of the CrPC. We do not think that the orders are justified under S. 133.''), it seems clear that the Supreme Court is differing with the order passed by the High Court (the fact situation and prior trial results from the High Court make it clear that the High Court had taken an action under S. 133 that has aggrieved the appellants in this case) and favouring the appellants. Therefore, it appears that the Supreme Court has decided to accept the appeal. The aforementioned sentences (20, 24-28) clearly indicate that the court is considering the appellants’ contentions and action favourably. Interpretation of the legislative intention in Sentence 26 and justification of appellants’ action by way of facts in Sentences 24 and 25 all point to such, along with Sentences 20, 27 and 28 as described above. Hence these are considered Rank 1 sentences. Similarly, Sentences 15-19 show how the court is considering the provisions of S. 133, particularly clause (1) thereof, applying those to the facts at hand, and arguing that the appellants’ actions cannot be considered as causing obstruction. These sentences lead to the opinion in Sentence 20, and have also been considered as Rank 1. Sentence 10 also makes it clear that the court is opining that the High Court has considered too wide an interpretation of a proposition, thus highlighting the divergence of opinion further. Hence this sentence is also considered as Rank 1. 
In Sentence 7, the issue of causing obstruction has been identified as the main contention –without this, it would have been difficult to make the subsequent reasoning, as referred above. Hence this sentence is also considered as Rank 1.
Sentences 5, 6, 8, 9, 11-14, 21-23 highlight other relevant portions of the fact scenario, the description of the legislative provision involved, and rejection by the Supreme Court of some of the arguments made by the respondents and apparently accepted by the High Court. While not of prime importance, these sentences are nonetheless relevant and have therefore been marked Rank 2. 
Finally, the exact nature of the case being by way of an appeal from an order of the High Court under S. 133 CrPC is mentioned in Sentence 2, which is considered Rank 3, since it lays the foundation for the entire discussion.

_**User 2:**_ This is given in the table below.

Sentence No. | Rank assigned | Reasoning
-------------|---------------|-----------
7	| 2	| This sentence deals with the undisputed facts of the case that the court has accepted and will base their decision on.
8	| 2	| This is the fundamental question that the court will need to answer after looking at the facts of the case and determine whether the conditions of Section 133 CrPC are satisfied or not.
11	| 3	| This sentence states that the claim against the vegetable vendors is one of public nuisance under Section 133.
12	| 2	| This sentence sets out that the case can only be considered under either clause (a) or clause (b) of Section 133(1) of the CrPC, thereby restricting the scope of enquiry.
16	| 3	| This sentence analyses why clause (a) of Section 133(1) does not have any application in this case. This sentence does not directly affect the judgment that will be reached by the court.
17	| 3 | This sentence states that even if there was an obstruction caused, this judgment will not deal with it as it would not be inapplicable against the vegetable vendors. This sentence does not directly affect the judgment that will be reached by the court.
18	 | 3	| The court states the practical difficulty in enforcing a Section 133(1)(a) order. This sentence does not directly affect the judgment that will be reached by the court.
20	 | 1	| This sentence concluded that the vegetable vendors did not infringe Section 133(1)(a).
22, 23	| 1	| This sentence lays the primary reasoning used by the court to dismiss any claims relating to physical comfort or the health of the community under Section 133(1)(b).
26	| 1	| The court interprets the intent of the legislation while formulating Section 133(1)(b) and hold that it does not affect the right to trade. This helps buttress the primary reasoning by clarifying the legislative intent of this Section.
27	 | 1	| The court’s final holding is that there is no violation under Section 133 of the CrPC. This helps in deciding whether the court accepted or rejected the case.
29	 | 1	| Since this was an appeal against an order of the High Court allowing an order under Section 133 of the CrPC and this court dismissed the claims arising from Section 133(1)(a) and (b), the court therefore, accepted the special leave appeal filed by the vegetable vendors.

_**User 3:**_ The sentences were ranked taking into account their relative importance with respect to the final decision regarding the appeal. Sentence 1 simply stated the name of the judge authoring the decision of the court. It is unmarked since ideally who the judge is should not influence judicial rationale and further no personal subjectivity was specifically noticeable in the case. Since sentence 2 was merely stating the nature of the case i.e. appeal to the Supreme Court, and the charging provision under law, it was left unranked as it was not specifically factoring into the decision. Sentences 5 and 6 were also unranked. This was because though a dispute was mentioned in sentence 5, sentence 6 mentioned that the court did not take it into consideration.
The background facts are laid out in Sentences 3, 4 and 7. Since facts are essentially established at trial court level and matters at appellate level, particularly when before the Supreme Court, are to be decided on the basis of legal points alone, these have not been considered absolutely crucial to the final decision. However, application of law to facts is always relevant, specifically given that the case at hand was dealing with a criminal charge. Sentences 3 and 4 provide supplementary background information and are hence ranked at Rank 3. The facts more closely related to the cause of action are provided in Sentence 7, so it is marked at Rank 2.
Sentence 8 provides the key issue under consideration of the court. The question is very relevant with reference to the answer given in the decision, so it is provided Rank 1. Sentence 9 having the position of the High Court which is challenged is provided Rank 2 as though worth considering, its veracity is ultimately under question in the appeal. Sentence 10 however, is Rank 1 as the Supreme Court specifically explains its stance regarding the High Court’s position therein. Sentences 11 and 12 are also Rank 1 since the Court lays out the applicable law in it which it will use in its decision. Sentences 13 and 14 though are Rank 2 as they simply paraphrase the text of the statute but nonetheless provide the tests to be applied. Sentences 15 to 28 are Rank 1 as the law is applied to the facts in these sentences. They also contain the interpretation of the factual matrix juxtaposed against the two clauses of Section 133, CrPC (applicable provision). Sentences 15 to 20 establish inapplicability of the first clause while sentences 21 to 27 deal with the second clause. These sentences together form the operative part of the decision.

_**User 4:**_ The assignment was to rank each sentence in the given judgment from 1 to 10 in descending order of importance. The rank was to be decided based on the need for the knowledge of a particular sentence in reaching the final judgment. The present judgment was an appeal under Section 133 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for the procedure in urgent cases requiring the removal of a public nuisance. I used lower ranks like 5 and 6 to mark the facts of the case that were not material to the judgment but were required to get a full picture of the situation. These included the occupation of the appellants and their modus operandi (buying the vegetable in carts and parking the carts on a public road outside buildings). The tussle between the appellants and the Municipal board was left unmarked since it was immaterial in the appeal. Undisputed facts were also either left unmarked or marked low (Rank 5, 6). 
Since it was a public nuisance case, the source of the nuisance, that is, the noise from the auction of vegetable and the carts on the road were considered material and were marked Rank 3.  Similarly, the question raised before the court was ranked 3. The judgment of the High Court, though necessary, has been marked 3. These are facts that the court should be privy to make a decision but not facts or statements that the decision would be based on. 
Further, the court’s reasoning was marked the highest (rank 1 and 2). The legal observation that the court makes of the impugned judgment (statement 10) is important and therefore given rank 2. Even the court’s understanding and explanation of the legal provision is vital to decide the case. Thus, the sentences where the court notes that action under Section 133 can only be taken under certain circumstances and narrows down the focus on specific subparts of the section were ranked 2 too. A restatement of the clauses, however, was ranked 3. The analysis of the provision is more important for reaching the decision. The illustration connecting the section to the present case is also ranked 3, being an extension of the restatement and explanation of the sub-clauses. Accordingly, the court’s analysis of the provision in statement 19 was ranked 2 and its conclusion of noise not being an obstruction as defined in Section 133 was ranked 1. Similarly, the observations of fact in statements 21 through 24 are essential but not decisive and were marked 3. The obiter in statement 25 is a widely worded statement having no bearing of law or fact and has been left unmarked. Even the observation on the intention of the legislature in drafting this clause was left unmarked since legislative interpretation was not necessary to conclude the present case. The reason for acceptance of the appeal was that the noise produced was trivial and could not amount to a nuisance. Therefore, statements 27 and 28, stating this reasoning, have been ranked 1 for being of utmost importance.

_**User 5:**_ The main question in the case was not about what the law is, but whether the act of the appellants amounted to a violation of the statute. Therefore, the court’s conclusion that the appellants did not cause obstruction or nuisance is to be considered as the most important part of the judgement. For the same reason, the court’s finding that ‘slight discomfort’ will not justify an order like the one in the case clinches the case in favour of the appellant and gets the most value. 
The concluding of facts was only possible by piecing together several smaller pieces of facts and reasoning by the judges. This part will be ranked second in terms of value, but their importance will vary according to the degree of proximity each finding will have to the final conclusion. For example, the finding that the block was not caused by the appellants, but by the people who bring carts will have more value than the part which states that different people might have come for the auction on different days. This is in spite of the fact that both ultimately helps the court to conclude that the obstruction was not caused by the appellants. 
In the first clause, the term ‘unlawful obstruction’ is given more value than ‘nuisance’, as the court only tries to find whether or not the appellants caused any unlawful obstruction. Whether or not they caused any nuisance is not pondered upon by the court. For the same reason, the important term in the second clause is ‘injurious to the health or physical comfort’. 
The part which simply iterates the plain words of the statute will have lesser significance, compared to the part which interprets the statute and explains what the statute actually means. So, the part where the court explains why the creators of the relevant law would not have intended to cover even ‘slight discomforts’ will have more value than the part which merely states what the exact words in the statute says. While the court did find that some noise was generated, that finding gets the least significance as the court’s finding that the noise was of low intensity trumps the previous argument.
